Hack Together: Speaker resources (Codespaces & SWA) (#238)
Azure-Samples/contoso-real-estate: community-events/content/challenge-project/02-exercise-swa-cli.md

This file can be generated once you have globally installed the package: **[@azure/static-web-apps-cli](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@azure/static-web-apps-cli)**, by executing the following command inside the folder: **Portal**.

```bash
swa init
```

Please see the step-by-step creation of the file in the image below:

![SWA init Contoso](./images/swa-init-contoso.gif)

Once the file is generated according to the project settings, please observe in the code below that the `swa-cli.config.json` file has the following properties:

<details><summary><b>packages/portal/swa-cli.config.json</b></summary>
<br/>

  ```json
    {
      "$schema": "https://aka.ms/azure/static-web-apps-cli/schema",
      "configurations": {
        "contoso-real-estate": {
          "appLocation": ".",
          "apiLocation": "../api",
          "outputLocation": "dist/contoso-app",
          "appBuildCommand": "npm run build",
          "apiBuildCommand": "npm run build",
          "run": "npm start",
          "appDevserverUrl": "http://localhost:4200",
          "apiDevserverUrl": "http://127.0.01:7071"
        }
      }
    }
  ```
</details>
<br/>

> Note the `appDevserverUrl` and `apiDevserverUrl` properties, which contain the paths to the frontend and backend, respectively. The `apiLocation` property contains the path to the `API` project. Onde se encontra o lado do Back-End da aplicação desenvolvido com: Azure Functions e Azure Cosmos DB (MongoDB API).

Reviewer: Missing translation here

+ May be useful to explain that the backend is located in the `packages/api` folder and is a serverless API using Azure Functions. Then explain that the SWA CLI automatically runs the Azure Functions emulator (azure functions core tools) when it detects that an Azure Functions API is used.

## How to run the `portal` project?

We do not recommend running this project locally, as it requires a number of configurations to work. To optimize your learning, we recommend using **[Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces)** which will create a development container for you. And the best part of all: without you having to install anything on your machine.

> Codespaces offers 60 free hours of usage per month. After this period, you will be charged an hourly rate. To learn more, visit [Codespaces](https://github.com/features/codespaces).

> To run the project, follow the steps below:

Reviewer: steps 1-3 were already in the `01-prepare.md` file?

Author: you're right. I'm updating the steps!

1. You will need to make a copy of the template repository in your GitHub account. To do this, you will need to access the **[repository](https://github.com/Azure-Samples/contoso-real-estate)** and **Fork**. At the end of the fork of the repository, you will have a copy of the project in your GitHub account.

2. On the repository page that was created, click the **Code** button and, in the Codespaces tab, click **Create codespace on main**. In a few moments, Codespaces will create a development environment for you.

3. When Codespaces finishes creating the development environment, you will see a Visual Studio Code window in the browser. You can use Visual Studio Code in the browser to develop the application.

4. As all the scenarios of the project are coupled, so that we can visualize what was created in the portal, it will be necessary to perform the following steps:

>   - Open the Visual Studio Code terminal and, at the root of the Contoso project, run the commands `npm install && npm start` to install the project dependencies.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - Open the Visual Studio Code terminal and, at the root of the Contoso project, run the commands `npm install && npm start` to install the project dependencies and start the servers.
```

      "lint": "npm run lint -ws --if-present",
      "lint:fix": "npm run lint:fix -ws --if-present",
      "clean": "rimraf \"packages/**/*.tsbuildinfo\"",
      "clean:install": "rimraf \"packages/**/node_modules\" \"node_modules\" && npm install"
    }
  ```
</details>
<br/>

Checking the scripts:

**Docker compose**

```json
  "start:services": "docker compose up"
```

This file is responsible for starting the docker services, which are Strapi CMS and Stripe API. In addition, this `docker compose` is configured to start the Azure Database for PostgreSQL database of Strapi CMS and the Stripe API, and, in the API, it is configured to start the Azure Cosmos DB database integrated with MongoDB.

**API**
```json
  "start:api": "npm run start --workspace=api"
```

Responsible for running the `API` project.

**Portal**
```json
  "start:website": "npm run start:swa --workspace=portal"
```

Responsible for running the `portal` project.

#### Understanding the Heart of the SWA CLI: Reverse Proxy

This is the heart of the SWA CLI. It intercepts and forwards HTTP requests to the right components based on purpose:

- `/.auth/**` requests => forwarded to the Auth emulator server.

> - `/api/**` requests => forwarded to localhost functions (if present).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `/api/**` requests => forwarded to the API backend (if configured).
```
